---
title: "From Dynamics End User to Partner-Side Consultant "
date: 2024-08-11T18:35:00Z
lastmod: 2024-09-15T17:42:13Z
url: "/2024/08/from-dynamics-end-user-to-partner-side.html"
tags: ["end user to consultant"]
hero: "https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhftKs4Qi63CTkZttLdXjy-9LTTRNd9Tz0ofSW28GpoH1YGSuS_pCE0J6j-r7kwioRM6PMOb1-l7vsISA7n8UdLG-E06lPKOLzYJiSdoe_yQUKDEO3WkFm5VXt9f7d1tdXoUdUQsUtz6PlRGxLzN2-dY7ISGd4NBeaUNrMgVKPj3anQjq82v0ce/w640-h426/map-950353_1920.jpg"
author: "Andy Wingate"
linkedin: "https://www.linkedin.com/posts/andywingate_microsoftpartner-consulting-careergrowth-activity-7228473168619814912-uABp"
---
<p>Is it time to jump ship, change tack, or chart a new course? (Non-nautical analogies are also available...)</p><p>If you love continuous learning, the challenge of solving interesting business process problems and tackling change management then a career as a Microsoft Dynamics Consultant could be a great choice for you.</p><p>The journey from an end user to a Microsoft partner-side consultant is an amazing and exciting journey to make, and great for your career. The move not only broadens your professional horizon but also opens up a wealth of opportunities for growth and impact.</p><p>This post is an introduction to a series I’ll be running over the next few months. I will look deeper into the pivotal aspects of this career move, explore the challenges you may face, and hopefully provide some insight into successfully making a jump over the fence. Why? because that's what I did, and it's been so much fun and rewarding.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>If you are currently an end user and want to make the move to a Microsoft partner, or if you recently joined a partner firm and are looking for a bit of help on how to accelerate you consultancy career, then this series could be of interest to you.</p>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>As an end user, you are primarily focused on utilising applications to meet your business needs. However, stepping into the consultant's shoes means you are now in a position to help other businesses leverage technology to their fullest potential.</p>
<p>Everyone’s experience and expertise are different. As an end user wishing to move to a partner, one of the biggest assets you can bring is your industry-specific knowledge. Do not underestimate the simple power of simply being familiar with the common business language of your sector be that manufacturing, finance, retail, professional services, the list goes on!</p>
<p>The task that falls to you, which I hope that can help with, is to understand and maximise those transferable skills while closing the gaps you identify relating to consultancy and deliver skills.</p>
<h2>The Importance of the Journey</h2>
<p>Becoming a Microsoft Partner-side consultant gives you a huge opportunity to grow and learn. Here are some key opportunities that this transition presents:</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>Enhanced Skill Set</strong>: As a consultant, you will gain a deeper understanding of Microsoft technologies. Faced by many different problems to solve in different business settings you will need to take your current understanding of a given solution and come up with new ways to meet the requirements. But the good news, you are not on your own; implementing Dynamics is a team sport. Solving lots of interesting challenges enhances not only your technical skills but also your problem-solving abilities.</li>
<li><strong>Making a Difference</strong>: Helping businesses implement Microsoft solutions means you are directly contributing to their success. Your insights and recommendations to help them get the best from the technology will lead to significant improvements in their operations and efficiency.</li>
<li><strong>Professional Growth</strong>: The role of a consultant is challenging &amp; rewarding. It offers continuous learning opportunities through the chance to work on diverse projects across different industries. This not only keeps you engaged but also accelerates your career growth.</li>
<li><strong>Networking Opportunities</strong>: Working as a consultant allows you to build a great professional network. Collaborating with various stakeholders, from IT professionals to business leaders, helps you establish a valuable professional network.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Challenges and How to Overcome Them</h2>
<p>The journey from end user to consultant is not without its challenges. Here are some common obstacles and a few tips to help. All of these are topics in their own right that I’ll be expanding on over this series.</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>Getting the offer</strong>: Finding the right partner to join and getting through the interview process can feel like a mountain to climb. However, partners need resources! I can recommend approaching a good Biz Apps-focused recruiter, for a number of reasons; they have their finger on the pulse of the partner network, they know which partners are growing and often have good relations with the practice leads. The recruiter can also help with your CV layout, content and the interview process. Another area to invest some time in is LinkedIn. Interact with Biz  Apps people; read their posts/blogs and share your thoughts in the comments.</li>
<li><strong>Adapting to a New Role</strong>: Transitioning from using a technology to advising others on its use can be daunting. To ease this transition, seek mentorship from experienced consultants and participate in community forums/events to share experiences and learn from others.</li>
<li><strong>Keeping Up with Technological Advances</strong>: The D365  landscape is continually evolving. Stay ahead by dedicating time each week to learning about new features, updates, and best practices.</li>
<li><strong>Balancing Technical, Business Process and Soft Skills</strong>: Successful consultants need a mix of deep technical knowledge, solid understanding of common business processes and the soft skills to help teams through a change project. That sounds like a lot, but remember, ERP implementation is a team sport. Knowing when to, and how to, ask for help are also key skills.</li>
</ol>
<h2>Last word</h2>
<p>Moving from an end user to a Microsoft Partner-side consultant is a rewarding journey that offers numerous professional and personal growth opportunities. By leveraging your end-user experiences, you can provide valuable insights and solutions to other businesses, helping them achieve their goals and drive change through excellent delivery.</p>
<p>If you're considering this move, remember that it's a journey of continuous learning and adaptation. Embrace the opportunities it presents, and you'll find yourself on a path to a fulfilling and impactful career. The skills you develop and the connections you make can enhance your professional life and contribute significantly to the success of the organisations you work with.</p><h2 style="text-align: left;">Next time...</h2><div>'Getting the most from joining a Microsoft Partner'... In my next post I'll get into the details of all the great tools and resources you get access to as when joining a Microsoft Partner firm.</div>
